---
layout: index
title: "JEE Basic"
category: java
date: 2019-05-10 11:03:55
---

# JEE basic knowledge

> JPA

> Entity Class Requirement

- Must be annotated with **@Entity**
- Must have a public or protected no-arg constructor
- Must be a top-level class
- The persistent state of an entity is represented by instance fields.
- Entities support inheritance and must not be final.
- If an entity instance is to be passed by value as a detached object, the entity class must implement the **java.io.Serializable** interface


> Why would you choose persistent properties over persistent filed?

- If you want to do additional processing in a getter/setter method.

> Elements belong to persistence unit in persistence.xml

- provider, jta-data-source




> DAO methos always throws **SQLException**

> Transaction Models - Nested

- If the main transaction failed, the nested transactions are also rolled back.
- A failure in a nested transaction doesn't necessarily roll back other nested transactions

> Transaction Models - Chained

- If the main transaction failed, the nested transactions are also rolled back.
- However, a failure in a nested transaction roll back only that transaction.

> Comparison of Programmatic and Declarative Transactions


N/A | Programmatic(BMT) | Declarative(CMT)
---|---|---
Operation |Use JTA calls to specify which operations form a single transaction (bean-managed)|Specify the transaction properties in the deployment descriptor(container-managed)
Available in| Sevlets, JSP components, session beans, CDI beans, and messaging-driven bean | Session bean, CDI beans, and messaging-driven bean



> Bean-managed transaction usage

1. Add **TransactionManagement(BEAN)** on class level.
2. Inject **UserTransaction** resource
3. ``` ut.begin()  ut.commit() ut.rollback()```

> EJB Container-managed transaction usage

1. Add **@TransactionAttribute(TransactionAttributeType.REQUIRED)**

> Transaction Attributes

- REQUIRED *The method becomes part of the caller's transaction. If the caller does not have a transaction, the method runs in its own transaction.*
- REQUIRED_NEW *The method always runs in its own transaction. Any existing transaction is suspended.*
- NOT_SUPPORTED *The method never runs in a transaction. Any existing transaction is suspended.*
- SUPPORTS *The method becomes part of the caller's transaction. If the caller does not have a transaction, the method doesn't runs in a transaction.*
- MANDATORY *It is an error to call this method outside of a transaction.*
- NEVER *It is an error to call this method in a transaction.*

> JEE Concurrency Mechanisms

- Message-Driven Bean
- Get a **ManagedExecutorService** instance

> which Alternative Should You Use?

- Message-Driven Bean
    - Don't require a reference to the actual EJB
    - Support fire and forget methods(not return value)
    - Require server administration
- Asynchronous EJBs
    - Require a reference to the actual EJB that can be injected by using CDI
    - Support return values in methods
    - Don't require server administration
- Managed Executors
    - Provide maximum control over threads, and are the most native way of executing tasks
    - Require server administration

> **ManageTaskListener** events: *taskAborted, taskStarting*

> JSR-250 **javax.annotaion.security**

- @RunAs("admin"), @RolesAllowed({"user", "admin"}), @PermitAll, @RolesAllowed, @DenyAll and they are only supported for **JAX-WS EJB endpoints, JAX-RS EJB endpoints, JAX-RS POJO endpoints**.   *JAX-WS POJO* is not supported.
- Security annotations can be placed *session bean class and method*
- Web service security extensions contains *WS-Addressing, WS-Security*
- *ejb-jar.xml, @RolesAllowed* can restrict resource access by user role.
- *login-config* section in XML is used to configured to allow user authentication with the application. 



> JSR-352: Batch Applications

- API for defining long-running jobs
- Running batch processes on an Enterprise Server
- Execution controlled by application server

> A batch contains the following:

- Job, Step, JobOperator, JobRepository, Item Reader, Item Writer, Item Processor

> Timer Service

- The EJB timer service is a container-managed service that provides a way to allow method to be invoked at specific times or time intervals.
- The EJB timer may be set to invoke certain EJB method at a specific time, after a specific duration, or at specific recurring intervals.
- Timers can be created programmatically by interacting with **TimerService** or automatically through annotations.
- These Timer tasks apply to the following types of enterprise beans:
    - Stateless and singleton session beans
    - Message-driven beans
- Timers are intended for long-lived business processes and are by default persistent.

> Types of Timer

- Programmatic timers : Created by **TimerService**
- AUtomatic timers: created by **java.ejb.Schedule and java.ejb.Schedules** annotations.

> Calendar-Based Schedule Timers

- Seven attributes  can be used to define a **Schedule**
    - second
    - minute
    - hour
    - dayOfMonth
    - dayOfWeek
    - month
    - year



> MDB (Messaging Driven Bean)

> Configuring the Message-Driven Bean

- Message-Driven Bean support configuration by:
    - Annotations
    - Deployment descriptors
- Annotaion-based configuration is performed by specifying a set of **ActivationConfigProperty** annotations for the **activationConfig** property of the **@MessageDriven** annotation.
- Every message-driven bean must be configured with a destination.
- Common configurations are:
    - Destination type
    - Message acknowledgement
    - Message selection



> API for Topic Subscriptions

- For unshared durable subscriptions, the clientId must be set and is used to identify the subscription.
- For shared subscriptions, the clientID is optional. If it is set, it is used to identify the subscription.

> JMS support two types of messaging

- PTP (Point-to-point): Messaging by using queues
- Publish/sunscribe: Messaging by using topics

> Two types of Administered objects

- ConnectionFactory
- Destionation

> JMS Application is composed of the following parts

- JMS provider
- JMS clients
- Messages
- Administered objects


> JMS 2.0 New Features

- Simplified API
    - Injection of JMSContext object
    - Creating JMS Desination using annotation


- Delivery Delay
- Asynchronous Send
- Standardized Configurations

> CDI Interceptor can be used bellow lifecycle

- @AroundInvoke
- @PostConstruct
- @PreDestory
- @PrePassivate
- @PostActivate

> Create a qualifier


```java

@Qualifier
@Retention(RUNTIME)
@Target({METHOD, FIELD, PARAMETER, TYPE})
public @interface YourQualifierName {}

```


> CDI Context and Dependency Injection

> Limitations on CDI Beans

- A bean cannot be:
    - A non-static inner class
    - Annotated with an EJB component-defining annotation or declared as an EJB bean class in ejb-jar.xml

- A bean must have an appropriate constructor
    - The class has a constructor with no parameters
    - The class declares a constructor annotated with @Inject

> EJB 3.0

- Annotations
- Simplification of enterprise bean types
- Entity persistence through JPA

> EJB 3.1

- Singleton session bean
- Asynchronous session bean invocations
- EJB Timer Service
- Portable global JNDI names
- Embeddable EJB Container
- EJB 3.1 Lite
- Packaging and deployment of EJBs directory in a WAR file


> JSR-345 EJB 3.2 New Features

- Enhanced message-driven bean contract with no-method message listener interface
- Container-provide security role names "**"
- Local asynchronous session bean invocations and no-persistent EJB Timer Service included
- Support for transactions in SFSB lifecycle callbacks
- Ability to disable passivation of stateful session beans:
- Enhanced TimerService API to access all active timer in the EJB module with getAllTimer()
- Embeddable EJB Container to implement the AutoCloseable interface
- Removal of restrictions on the javax.ejb.Timer and javax.ejb.TimerHanlder references
- Relaxed default rules for a session bean to designate its implemented interfaces

> EJB Components

- Are managed by an EJB container
- Provide business and messaging function
- Are scalable, transactional, multiuser and secure

> EJB components types

- Session Beans

    - Stateless
    - Stateful
    - Singleton

- Message Driven Bean


> JNDI -> The Java Naming and Directory Interface is an API that provides naming and directory functionality to applications.

- Independent of any implementation
- Build on a service provider interface (SPI) 


> JAX-WS JAVA API for XML Web Service



> WSDL Structure

```xml

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<definitions>
    <types/>
    <message/>
    <portType/>
    <binding/>
    <service/>
</definitions>

```

> Vendor neutral and Component based 

> [JCP] https://www.jcp.org/en/home/index

>  A EAR file could contains JAR, WAR, RAR and so on.
```java
jar cvf myWebApp.war
```
> A java bean implements java.io.Serializable or java.io.Externalizable and using XMLEncoder and XMLDecoder make your application portable.